blog: Add post on configuring scan policies with Alert tags (#3191)
zaproxy/zaproxy-website: site/content/blog/2025-08-15-configuring-scan-policies-with-alert-tags/index.md

    policyDefinition:
      defaultStrength: medium
      defaultThreshold: "off" # Disable all rules by default
      alertTags:
        include:
          - "OWASP_.*" # All OWASP Top 10 Rules
        exclude:
          - "TEST_TIMING" # Exclude timing related rules
        strength: high
        threshold: low
      rules:
        # You can still specify individual rules alongside alert tags, and these take precedence
        - id: 40012
          name: "Cross Site Scripting (Reflected)"
          strength: medium
          threshold: "off"
```

## How It Works

When ZAP processes the policy definition:

1. **Default behavior**: All rules start with the default strength and threshold settings
2. **Alert tag processing**: Rules matching the `include` patterns are enabled with the specified alert tag strength and threshold
3. **Exclusion filtering**: Rules matching any `exclude` pattern are removed from the included set
4. **Individual rule overrides**: Explicitly listed rules under the `rules` section take precedence over alert tag settings

This hierarchy ensures that you have full control while benefiting from the convenience of tag-based selection.

## GUI Support

> The feature also includes GUI support with a new "Policy Alert Tags" tab in the Active Scan dialogs. This provides:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The feature also includes GUI support with a new "Policy Alert Tags" tab in the Automation Framework Active Scan dialogs. This provides:
```

- Visual interface for managing included and excluded tag patterns
- Dropdown lists populated with available alert tags from active scan rules
- Validation of regular expression patterns
- Easy addition and removal of tag patterns

![A screenshot of the Active Scan Policy Job dialog, with the new "Policy Alert Tags" tab selected](images/policy-alert-tags.png)

## Availability

> This feature is currently available in the development branch and will be included in an upcoming automation add-on release. You can try it out by building from the latest source code or using the weekly development builds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature is currently available in the development branch and will be included in an upcoming automation add-on release. You can try it out by building from the latest source code or using an up-to-date weekly release of ZAP.
```
